Adding disclaimer about consistency (fencing tokens and ttls expirati… (#2106)
redis/redis-doc: docs/reference/patterns/distributed-locks.md

of lock reacquisition attempts should be limited, otherwise one of the liveness
properties is violated.

### Disclaimer about consistency

Please consider thoroughly reviewing the [Analysis of Redlock](#analysis-of-redlock) section at the end of this page.
Martin Kleppman's article and antirez's answer to it are very relevant.
If you are concerned about consistency and correctness, you should pay attention to the following topics:

1. You should implement fencing tokens.
  This is especially important for processes that can take significant time and applies to any distributed locking system.
  Extending locks' lifetime is also an option, but don´t assume that a lock is retained as long as the process that had acquired it is alive.

> 2. ["Redis is not using monotonic clock for TTL expiration mechanism and there are no plans to use them
> for now" (August, 2022)](https://github.com/redis/redis/pull/7644#issuecomment-1206815232).

Reviewer: @itamarhaber don't you think this part is excessive?
```suggestion
2. Redis is not using monotonic clock for TTL expiration mechanism.
```

Author: @itamarhaber @oranagra the reason for that "for now" and the link is, from may POV, a try to given some more context to a reader that might be wondering is the monotonic clock topic is something that eventually could happen. Basically the path I followed to that issue and this PR.
If you guys consider this too much I'm fine applying @oranagra suggestion.
I have very limited access to my laptop this week, though 😅

Reviewer: I think that generally the docs specify how things work, and not how they could have worked and why it's not that way, what was planned or decided against...

@itamarhaber can make that decision and apply / edit the text if needed.

Reviewer 2: I admired @jhmilan research capabilities in finding the discussion, but on 2nd thought I tend to agree with @oranagra - sometimes less is better.

of lock reacquisition attempts should be limited, otherwise one of the liveness
properties is violated.

> ### Disclaimer about consistency
> Please consider giving a quite read to the Analysis of Redlock section at the end of this page.
> Martin Kleppman's article plus counterpoint to this analysis made by Antirez are very interesting
> and a couple of conclusions can be extracted from there. If you are very concerned about consistency and
> correctness, you should pay attention to the following topics:
> 
> 1. You should be implementing fencing tokens. This is especially important for processes that can take
> quite some time and it is not a problem only happening in Redlock but in any distributed locks system.
> Extending locks can be also be an option, but please don´t assume that a lock will be retained forever
> when the process which acquired it is still alive.
> 2. [Redis is not using monotonic clock for TTL expiration mechanism and there are no plans to use them
> for now (August, 2022)](https://github.com/redis/redis/pull/7644#issuecomment-1206815232). There might be
> one scenario where a lock can be acquired by more than 1 process after some wall-clock shift. Even though
> the problem can be mitigated or even avoided by a) not allowing admins to change date manually, and also
> b) properly setting up NTP, it is still possible that this issue would happen in real life and consistency could be 
> compromised.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Disclaimer about consistency

Please consider thoroughly reviewing the [Analysis of Redlock](#analysis-of-redlock) section at the end of this page.
Martin Kleppman's article and antirez's answer to it are very relevant.
If you are concerned about consistency and correctness, you should pay attention to the following topics:

1. You should implement fencing tokens.
  This is especially important for processes that can take significant time and applies to any distributed locking system.
  Extending locks' lifetime is also an option, but don´t assume that a lock is retained as long as the process that had acquired it is alive.
2. ["Redis is not using monotonic clock for TTL expiration mechanism and there are no plans to use them
for now" (August, 2022)](https://github.com/redis/redis/pull/7644#issuecomment-1206815232).
  That means that a wall-clock shift may result in a lock being acquired by more than one process.
  Even though the problem can be mitigated by preventing admins from manually setting the server's time and setting up NTP properly, there's still a chance of this issue occurring in real life and compromising consistency.

```
